Well, as we jump into part two of our series today, I got thinking about our summer vacation as kind of a way to open this message.
Lastly and I were on our summer vacation and the area we were in happened to have some great wineries.
And somebody said, hey, I've got a connection at this winery.
And they said, we would love for you to go there and see it.
And so we said, OK, great.
Free invite.
And so we're all up for free.
So we're driving.
We're driving up the laneway.
And it's like stunning.
Like the vineyards are stunning.
And stone buildings are stunning.
It's unbelievable.
And we pull into the parking lot.
And there's like a concierge to meet us in the parking lot.
And she says, listen, the tour is going to start momentarily.
And it's going to start in the barn.
She said, just go up the stairs.
You're going to see the barn on your right.
And so we said, OK.
kind of interesting.
We're going to start in the barn, but that's fine.
Like it's a vineyard, which is kind of like a fancy farm, right?
And so, and then what happens is this is the barn that we walk into.
I'll show you a picture of it.
This is the barn.
And so, so yeah, different kind of barn that I pictured in my mind, right?
Turns out it's one of the most rare car collections in the world.
And I don't know why we started a tour about grapes with beautiful cars.
But what you sensed, what you felt was, oh, somebody's trying to make an impression.
Somebody is trying to make an impression on this right from the get-go that, hey, there's financial means here.
I mean, it was a beautiful place, and you walk through, and it was this moment after moment like this.
And it made you feel like this family that owned this vineyard
just the amount of power and influence they had.
You kind of got that sense as you were on the tour.
And my question for you is you might not have that kind of power and influence, but you have been, when you think have you ever been in a position of power you have, that we all experience power in our lives.
At a certain point, you are supervising someone.
You are the boss.
You are on student council.
You have some sort of power.
You are a parent.
You have some sort of
power, you have power with your peers, you have, they're all different times in our lives that we have power.
And when you think about it and you think through your life there are moments where you've had maybe more power, you've had less.
And the interesting thing about power is power is fueled by currency.
It's currency that fuels power.
And they're all different kinds of currency.
The one I just talked about is financial currency, right?
If you have
Finances, more finances than someone else.
You have the ability that you have power.
It gives you a certain level of power.
You can pay to make things go away.
Position is currency.
You get a promotion.
You become the boss of the boss, whatever it might be.
You get pushed up the hierarchy.
That is power.
Time is a currency that creates power.
Some of you are young.
And you've got more life ahead of you.
So you've got some power over those who are older.
Those of you who are older, you've got some power because you have what we call experience.
And then platforms are an incredible currency of power.
How many followers you have, how many subscribers you have.
I mean, we are in a day and age where being noticed is sometimes trumped over being known.
And the more platform power I have, the more influence I have, the more followers I have.
Networks are a currency.
Who you know.
You know the guy who can get you leaf's tickets.
You know that guy.
That's power.
Networks are power.
Who you know, who you're connected to.
All of these things are currencies of power.
And culture says that the more currency you have, the more power you have.
That you should get more finances.
Is there any way you can get more time?
Can you get more of a network and create a bigger platform?
Whatever the currency is, the more of it you have,
the more power you're going to have.
And here's the thing about currency.
It's not powerful in itself.
It's sorry, currency is powerful in itself, but it's not meaningful.
It doesn't have meaning.
So we take our money, we take our time, we take our currency of our network and our relationships and our platform, and we try to use them to create meaning in our life.
I want to have a meaningful memory.
I want to have
Good relationships with my family.
I want to figure out how to have a successful career.
Whatever meaning is to you, we continue to spend the currency and the power of it to try to get meaning in our lives.
And most of us want to exchange our power for something meaningful.
That's the goal.
It's not just power for power's sake.
It's power for meaning.
I want to use it to get things and get relationships and get meaning in my life.
And my question for you is when you have power, how do you handle it?
Or when you don't have power, how do you handle that?
Now, we're talking in this series about a church every community needs.
And the truth is the local church also has power.
We have a supernatural power.
The power of the church is supernatural.
We have the power of the gospel, the truth of who Jesus is and how He's changed us.
We have the power of the Holy Spirit.
We have the power of spiritual gifts.
that people get when you choose to follow Jesus, we believe his spirit gives you a gift to serve the local church.
We have the power of alignment.
When we all align around a mission, we can make a huge impact.
When we take our resources of time and finances and our passion, we all align around the cause of reaching our community.
Man, that's powerful.
So how do we handle the power of the local church?
We need to think about that.
Because the local church is Jesus' movement.
It represents him on the earth.
He calls us the body of Christ.
We represent him.
This is his plan.
And we talked about last week, the church isn't a club for the found, it's a search party for the lost.
That to Jesus, the church is plan A for Simcoe County.
There is no plan B.
That to see our communities changed and transformed, it's his movement of the local church.
that has gone through generations and it is globally around the world, that he is saying, this is who represents me on earth, you are the body of Christ.
And a church worth finding should look like Jesus.
If we're the body of Christ, we should look like him, the Jesus who found us.
So what we're doing in this series is we're saying, hey, what did Jesus look like and how do we look like that?
So last week we looked at the personality of Jesus.
Today we're gonna look at the posture of Jesus.
Next we're gonna look at the power of Jesus and the last week we're gonna look at the purpose of Jesus.
And posture is really all about how you handle your power.
You've had a boss who you think, man, they had power over me and they did not handle it well.
Or you've had a boss and you said, man, they had power over me and I'm so glad to have worked for that person.
Maybe you have a parent who had or has power over you and they have a good posture.
the way they treat you well, that you understand man, the way they use their power, the posture is how you handle your power, or you have a parent and you're like, man, my dad growing up, his posture was not good.
He had power and he did not use it in a healthy way.
What was the posture of Jesus?
That's the question we wanna look at.
If we're gonna represent him, what did his posture actually look like, and how should that change you?
How does that change me?
How does that change us?
And what we're gonna do is we're gonna look at a famous passage today.
And Jesus is very soon going to be going to the cross to die for our sins, to give us freedom from guilt and shame and brokenness.
And he's having dinner with his disciples and it says this, it was just before the Passover Festival.
And Jesus knew that the hour had come for him to leave this world and go to the Father.
Having loved his own who were in the world,
He loved them to the end.
You see, this is his goal now.
He's gonna be going to the cross and he wants to love the people around him well.
And it says, the evening meal was in progress and the devil had already prompted Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, to portray Jesus.
There's demonic activity here.
That Judas has been tempted to portray Jesus and Jesus knows that he's giving in to the temptation.
That's what's happening here.
And Judas, why does he give up Jesus?
It's a good question.
Well, one is finances, although it's not that much.
It's only 30 pieces of silver.
That's the price of a slave at that time.
But it's not just finances.
It's also relationship with religious leaders.
It's a grasp at power.
Why is that?
Well, a lot of theologians think that Judas was actually quite upset that Jesus wasn't going after political power.
That's what he, I want you to be a political ruler.
I want you to have political power.
I want you to be a celebrity.
I wanna, that's what you should be doing Jesus.
And Jesus wasn't doing that.
I mean, and there's a passage where a woman is pouring perfume, expensive perfume on Jesus' feet.
And he says, he says, why would she do that?
So such a waste of money.
Like Judas is not getting it.
For Judas, it's about a different kind of power that he wants.
to the point he's willing to betray Jesus.
Now, I want to make a point to you about Judas that I think is so important because I think it's an interesting insight for all of us.
Do you know that Judas had the best small group Bible study?
I mean, the original 12 disciples, right?
You're like, man, my small group are chumps compared to that.
Judas had the best Bible teacher.
You know, I do my best, but I'm no Jesus.
He had the best Bible teacher, he had the best small group and he was used in a powerful way.
When the disciples are baptizing people and when the disciples are preaching and when the disciples are healing people, there's no asterisks for Judas.
He's doing all that too.
He had the best small group, he had the best Bible teacher, he was used powerfully and he wasn't changed.
Think about that.
He wasn't actually changed.
Why?
He was using Jesus not following Jesus.
He was using Jesus as currency to get himself power.
That was the goal for him.
I call this tragic proximity.
The fact that Judah spent every day with Jesus for three years, but he wasn't changed.
He did all the right things.
He was in the right Bible study.
He had the best teacher.
but he wasn't changed.
We can be like that.
For those of you who call yourself Christ followers, you can be like, listen, I need more Bible study.
I need more Bible study.
I need better.
Listen, Jeff's okay, but have you heard this guy online?
I mean, he's unbelievable.
Or I need this book.
Have you read this book?
Have you read that book?
Have you read?
And what's happening there is we think that by doing all of those things that we're surrendering, but we're not.
Judas did all the things.
He had the best of all of it, but he never surrendered his control to Jesus.
He never surrendered his power.
And that can happen to you, that you live in tragic proximity.
You love coming to church, you love serving, you read your Bible, you pray, but you are holding on to control of your life.
And that's where Judas fell into temptation.
Ultimately,
He held the power in the dynamic.
And then it says this about Jesus.
It says, Jesus knew that the father had put all things under his power and that he had come from God and he was returning to God.
John puts this here on purpose.
What's John trying to say?
He's trying to say at this moment, Jesus had all power.
He knew what was happening.
He knew what was happening when it came to God's plan.
He knew he was going to the cross.
He knew all the facts.
He knew all the players.
He had all the power in this moment.
And he knew that Judas was going to betray him.
And there's someone else sitting there named Peter who he knows is going to deny him.
And Jesus had all the, he could have just snuffed Judas out, right?
He could have just been like lightning bolt, boom.
He didn't do that.
He could have screamed at Judas.
He could have said, guys, you got no idea what this guy's up to.
He's gonna be trainee.
Toss this guy out.
Rough him up.
Get him out of here.
He could have done that.
He knew everything.
He had all the power.
He had all the cards.
And he knew where Judas was at.
And what does Jesus do?
In his moment of greatest power you could argue.
It says, so he got up from the meal.
And he took off his outer clothing, which I'm not going to do.
And he wrapped the towel around his waist.
And it's his after that, he poured water into a basin.
And he began to wash the disciples' feet, drying them with the towel that was wrapped around him.
In a moment, when Jesus was fully aware of his power,
He didn't flex his power.
He washed feet with it.
He stooped to his knees.
In a culture where everybody was wearing Birkenstocks, and they all had dirty sandy feet.
And it was only for the lowest servant to wash the feet.
And if you were a Jewish servant,
you would go find a Gentile servant to wash the feet.
Jesus is even, don't miss this, crossing racial lines here.
And he washes their feet in the moment of his greatest power.
But it's more than that.
Because you think about it, Jesus is going down the disciples.
And it doesn't say anything, you know, these wash one feet, and then next, and he washes.
But he only really talks about two.
And this is the first one.
It says, he came to Simon Peter, who he knew was going to betray him, who he knew was going to deny him.
He actually calls him out for it later.
And he came to Peter who said to him, Lord, are you going to wash my feet?
And Jesus replied, you do not realize now what I'm doing, but later you're going to understand.
And Peter says, no, said Peter.
No, said Peter.
You shall never wash my feet.
You're never gonna listen.
You're not getting down on your knees in front of me.
You're not washing my feet.
And Jesus answered, unless I wash you, Peter, you're not gonna have any part of me.
Then Lord, Simon Peter replied, not just my feet, but my hands and my head as well.
This is so Peter, right?
He's like, no, you're not washing my feet.
Two seconds later, give me the full bubble bath, the spa treatment.
I want all of it.
If that's what it takes, it's so Peter.
Peter is a lot.
And Jesus answered, those who have had a bath need only to wash their feet, their whole body is clean and you are clean.
He's talking about a soul, though not every one of you.
For he knew, he knew who was going to betray him.
And that is why he said, not everyone was clean.
Think about this.
Jesus doesn't stop at Judas when he's washing feet.
He washes Judas' feet.
He knows what he's gonna do.
He knows he's gonna betray him.
He knows he's gonna turn his back on him.
He knows he's gonna die because of him, and he washes his feet.
And a moment when he was fully aware of his power, he loved the enemy around him and washed their feet.
You know, I think if you've been reminded of anything, if you've been on social media this week, is our culture's pretty pole polarized sometimes, isn't it?
And it's really easy.
for us to get caught up in what's going on in social media and start to get involved in the battles on social media and the battles between people on social media and what people are commenting on social media.
And like, you know you shouldn't open those comments first of all.
And you get so caught up in all of that and all of that stuff online.
And meanwhile, you've got a neighbor who's broken.
You've got a coworker whose marriage is falling apart.
You've got people right around you who need their feet washed, who need to be cared for.
And we can get so caught up in a real world, but a world that is so far away and forget that there are people all around you every day who need you to wash their feet.
And Jesus was even willing to wash the feet of his own enemy.
And then it says this, when he had finished washing their feet, he put on his clothes, he returned to his place.
He said, do you understand what I have done for you?
He asked them, you call me teacher and Lord and rightly so for that is what I am.
But now that I, your Lord and teacher have washed your feet, you also should wash one another's feet.
I have set an example that you should do as I have done for you.
Very truly, I tell you, no servant is greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him.
Now that you know these things, you will be blessed if you do them.
He said, you want to be blessed?
Wash feet.
Serve others.
Choose humility.
I have a mentor who had this phrase that whenever I think of him, I always think of it.
He used to say this, a life following Jesus means there's no bottom to humility and there's no lid on love.
And sometimes love has to tell the truth and that is hard and Jesus actually tells the truth to Judas and Peter later on here.
But you will spend, if you are a follower of Jesus, you spend your whole life
Trying to understand, can I find the bottom of humility?
And can I find the lid of love?
And as soon as I find them, how do I go to the next?
That's the life Jesus calls us to.
That's the life he modeled for us.
This isn't the only place he talks about it.
He talks about it in other places.
In Mark 10, you've got these two disciples, James and John.
And they want to know, hey, Jesus, who's going to be like on your right and left?
Like who are gonna be your top blue tenants?
Who are gonna be the, hey, when you, when you, you know, when you're big and famous, Jesus, who's gonna be your number one?
You know, did you see that I carried like some extra bread and I did like three other healings and manage that line for you?
Like I'm gonna be on the right, right?
It says when the 10 disciples, 10 other disciples heard that James and John were asking about this, they were indignant.
And so Jesus calls the disciples together and he said,
You know that the rulers in this world, Lord, their power, it, their power over their people.
And officials flaunt their authority over those under them.
That's how the world handles power.
But among you, it will be different.
Whoever wants to be the leader among you must be your servant.
And whoever wants to be first among you must be a slave of everyone else.
For even the son of man,
came not to be served, but to serve.
He's talking about himself and to give his life as a ransom for many.
The cross is the ultimate picture of the fact that there's no bottom to humility and there's no lid on love.
That Jesus in all of his power went to the cross in all humility for your forgiveness and for mine out of his love for us.
out of love of God the Father.
See, the thing we know about power is power when it doesn't have any humility, we know it, right?
Like you already are like, I know that guy.
I'm already thinking about it.
Power without humility corrupts.
Because what happens is when you seek power for power sake, you end up alone.
You end up isolated.
When you seek power for power sake, you end up
being corrupted, you end up being dishonest.
You'll do things that you wish you'd never done in order to maintain and keep that power.
And some of you have been there.
You've been in situations where all you wanted to do was hold on to the power you had and you ended up doing unhealthy things, doing that.
But power with humility, that's what transforms.
That's what Jesus is showing us.
That when power takes on humility,
That's when it's pushing back darkness.
That's when it's changing and transforming.
When we're serving the people around us, that's what's pushing the darkness back.
Humility is what turns power into purpose.
Then when we take our power, when we take our influence, when we take our currency, and we use it in a humble way to serve the people around us, that's when we're making impact.
That's when we're pushing back darkness.
That's when we're seeing lives transformed.
That's when we're actually building lives of meaning, which is what we really want in the first place.
Some of you are saying, okay, Jeff, this is like a lot.
It's kind of personal.
It's heavy.
So what about us?
Like you're talking about me, but what about us?
What does this mean for our church?
What does this mean for a group of us to have this kind of posture in our community, in our county, in our cities?
Well, the early church, when they saw this, they tried to figure out how do we live this way?
How do we live with this like humility and power?
How do we live like Jesus this way?
And so as they tried to figure out, four things kind of became the characteristics of those churches.
The first one, they shared the gospel, the truth of who Jesus is.
Second is, they had radical hospitality.
These people were taking everybody in.
I need food, you need a meal, I don't care how much money you make, I don't care if you're sick, I don't care if you're having a hard time, I don't care whether you're my enemy, my friend, you're welcome.
They had this radical hospitality which blew people away.
They would care for the sick when people were running away from them.
And you know what else?
They loved each other well.
They really cared for each other.
And the people around them were super impressed by that.
and everywhere they went, everywhere these local churches popped up.
And this is how the Christian movement began, local churches like us popping up, living it out right where they were.
There's an early apologist, this is an early church, 200 years after Jesus' death.
An early apologist who was writing about their Christian faith, he says this about the early church, 200 years after Jesus, see how they love one another and how they're ready to die for one another.
Like look at these people, they are serious about this.
Justin Martyr, this is 150 years after Jesus' death and he was a part of the church and he says this, we who formerly hated and murdered one another, we now live together and we share the same table.
I mean, this was radical for people.
This was like, what is going on?
People who would never hang out are hanging out.
What is holding all these people together?
Why have they become so hospitable?
Why are they so sold out to serve?
Why are they a part of each other's lives?
What is it about these people?
I've got to figure out what it is, and that is how the early church grew.
They figured out that, oh yeah, when we serve like Jesus on the outside, we start to become more like Him on the inside.
we start to become changed on the inside.
So what does that look like for us in a practical way?
How do we end up looking like the early church as we look at what Jesus did with a towel in the midst of his power?
We want to be a church that's for our city, before we're for ourselves, that we choose to have a posture of invitation and not a posture of insulation.
I'm telling you right now, when you see stuff going on in the world that looks evil, that looks dark, your first instinct is to run away from it.
That's not the early church.
The early church ran towards it.
And the brighter their light was, the more lives were changed.
And in a moment when our world feels like, man, there's a bunch of spiritually curious people.
And at the same time, there's a darkness in our world
The best way to run towards the darkness and shine your light is to be a person that invites, to be a person that includes, to be a person that reaches out to those around you and says, listen, come over to my house for dinner.
Hey, I want to check in on you.
Hey, how are things going?
Hey, I want you to know I care about you.
Hey, I want you to know I'm going to pray for you this week.
Hey, have you ever been to church before?
I'll take you to mind.
We want to have a posture of invitation and not insulation.
That's what the early church was like.
They knew that no matter what came their way, because of Jesus, they had hope, a hope that they couldn't keep a secret.
Another way this looks for us is we give up our preferences for the new guest and for the next generation.
That here on a Sunday morning or however we do ministry, we're giving up our preferences for those who are new.
You come here on a Sunday, I know you have opinions,
Don't sit there like you don't.
I know you do.
The drums are too loud or that worship leader or whenever that person is parking or we get so caught up in all of that stuff.
But man, what we're trying to do is set things up for your guests.
We're trying to make things as welcoming as possible for your guests.
Listen, I would say to you, if you've never invited somebody to sit with you in a service at church and sat with them, you've really never attended our church.
You haven't because you don't get it.
That's what we're doing.
I'm telling you, if some of you are this person's day, you invited a friend.
And already, last night, you were like, oh, I hope that guy is on parking at the front.
Because he always is like, high energy.
And I hope we don't get that guy who's grumpy at the front.
And I hope when they drop their kids off that we get that person so they feel safe.
And I hope that the music is this way.
And I hope Jeff doesn't wear that wrinkly shirt again.
And I hope all of those things.
But we're giving up our preferences for new guests and the next generation who were passionate about reaching people.
And I know sometimes you're like, you know, well, I wish we just like, how can we don't have more Bible studies or how can we don't have this ministry?
And at my last church, which pastors love to hear, by the way, at my last church, we did this and all of that Bible study and all of that extra stuff and how well did that work out for Judas?
Think about it.
It's not really about that.
It's about surrender to Jesus.
It's about serving.
It's about laying down your life.
It's about seeing lives change.
We give up our preferences for new guests and for the next generation.
The other thing we do is we seek the humility to serve each other so our city might see Jesus.
And there are many of you who do this well, I will say.
I've done a number of weddings and funerals over the course of the last few months.
And what happens is I meet, if that's you, I meet your friends or I meet your family who don't go to church.
And time and time again, I hear people saying, man, it's amazing how they're small group.
Like you have this thing at your church called small groups there.
Yeah, yeah.
It's amazing what they've done for my daughter.
It's amazing what they've done for my son.
It's amazing.
My wife or my kid or whoever it is they're on a volunteer team and these people have been amazing They're bringing food.
They're bringing we had to buy like another freezer like They just care so well for them and people notice and people see Because people here don't have that in their life People are alone and when they see you as a part of this community Caring well for one another
they see that there's a different possibility for them.
And we seek the humility to use our power, to use our currency, our resources, our time, our networks, all of those things, our platforms, to point people in our cities to Jesus.
We take our power and we pair it with humility, not a desire to just get greater power and greater currency, but to use it to impact the community around us.
Harry Newoff, who is a friend of mine and our founding pastor, he always says this, there are no inspiring stories of accumulation, only inspiring stories of sacrifice.
At the end of our lives, nobody looks back and says, it was amazing about that person, that barn full of cars they had.
Nobody says that.
But man, look how they sacrificed.
Look at the difference they made.
Look at the passion they had.
Look at how they took their humility and turned their power into purpose.
Because humility turns power into purpose.
And I would encourage you, you all have power in some way.
And I would encourage you to do a power audit.
Maybe for you it's finances, maybe for you it's time.
You probably have multiple areas of currency where you have
Time, you have financial ability, you have a network of people, you have people you have relationship with, you've got a platform of some sort, whatever it is, there are places that you have currency.
And my question is, are you using that currency and taking the power it creates and turning it into something meaningful and pointing people to Jesus and getting on your knees and serving people in your community?
And my question is this week, what does it look like for you to use your power to serve someone else this week?
Now, I'm not sure you want to show up at your neighbors with like a towel and a basin.
That's going to be weird, right?
But to look for the people around you who need to be served, who need someone to be Jesus to them.
And take the time and the resources and the currency you have and to take your power and say, how can I help?
How can I pray?
How can I serve?
And you're like, some of you are like, I don't need another thing to do.
I get that, but you're not doing it in your own strength.
Say, come Holy Spirit, strengthen me to do this.
Come Holy Spirit, bring me the opportunity.
Come Holy Spirit, work through me.
We're going to talk more about that next week, what that looks like.
But what does it look like to use your power to serve someone else?
And if we're all doing that, as we gather and as we go into the community, we become a church that our cities actually need.
Because the people around you really need this.
The people around you really need this.
The people around you who don't know the hope of Jesus need us to be
this kind of church.
And if we are, we'll look at the early church, changed everything.
We're here today because a group of people did this 2,000 years ago.
And people like us across the globe and are part of a movement that is changing lives.
And you can sit on the sidelines or you can get in the game, but the choice is really up to you.
But this is what playing the game looks like.
Let me pray.
God, we come to you so challenging how in the moment of power you served in a moment of power, you dropped to your knees in a moment of power, you washed feet.
And because of your humility, it changed everything.
That ultimately in humility, you went to the cross and ultimately in humility,
You invited us to forgiveness of sin and freedom from guilt and shame.
God, may your spirit strengthen us and may we have the courage to live lives like this.
That we might look back on our lives of lives of meaning and impact and not a life of collecting stuff.
God, we pray as that we go from here
that we would remember the gift that you've given us and that we wouldn't take it for granted, but in response, we'd take the hope that we have found and we wouldn't keep it a secret, but we would share with as many people as possible because Barry, Aurelia, Simcoe County, the people around us who we know, and many of them who we love, need your hope now more than ever.
May we be faithful
being the church you've called us to be, and to pray this in your name.